Add documentation for releasing GOV.UK Frontend from a support branch (#2415)
alphagov/govuk-frontend: docs/releasing/publishing-from-a-support-branch.md

> # Publish GOV.UK Frontend when `main` branch has unreleasable changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Publishing from a support branch
```

This document is for GOV.UK Design System developers who need to publish a support branch of GOV.UK Frontend when the `main` branch contains unreleasable changes. For example, you might need to release a fix as part of a:

- patch release, after the team has started to merge changes for a new feature release into the `main` branch - for example, a 3.14.x release once we've started merging changes for 3.15.0
- release, after the team has started to merge changes for a new breaking release into the `main` branch - for example, a 3x.x release once we've started merging changes for 4.0.0

> Do not use this document to release changes for previous major releases. We have not tested the document in this scenario, and extra work would be needed to tell NPM not to mark the release as the 'latest'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not use this document to release changes for previous major releases. We have not tested the document in this scenario, and extra work would be needed to tell npm not to mark the release as the 'latest'.
```

If you want to publish the `main` branch for GOV.UK Frontend, [follow the steps in Publishing GOV.UK Frontend](/docs/releasing/publishing.md).

If the `main` branch only has a few unreleasable changes, you can temporarily revert these changes.

1. Revert the unreleasable changes on the `main` branch.
2. Publish GOV.UK Frontend.
3. Add the reverted changes back into the `main` branch.

However, this approach has risks. For example, it creates a messy commit history on the `main` branch.

## Publish GOV.UK Frontend from a support branch

> 

Reviewer 2: Should there be some content between the headings?

Reviewer: It feels unnatural, but I don't think so...Is there anything we could add that wouldn't be a reiteration of the title?

This is something that crops up in some other Design System content - like in our [release notes](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/releases/tag/v3.14.0) (no content between 'New features' and the first h3 heading) and our [Frontend API docs](https://frontend.design-system.service.gov.uk/sass-api-reference/#sass-api-reference).

There are definitely times when I've thought we needed this sort of content, but I haven't found anything in the style guide or on WCAG to back that up...

Reviewer: As discussed with @cmcnallygds, we'll revisit the headings issue after we've researched a bit more about recommended practice to benefit users.

### Before you publish GOV.UK Frontend

> 1. At stand up, person leading the release (usually a developer) to tell the GOV.UK Design System team we are close to releasing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. At stand-up, person leading the release (usually a developer) to tell the GOV.UK Design System team we are close to releasing.
```

4. Content designer to:
    - write announcements to post on Slack after we release:
      - GOV.UK Frontend (for example, [draft comms for the cookie banner component](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jVyMB7i94NOeflWaf3kE4Q4APMXGfluK3rOh74IHO08/edit))
      - GOV.UK Prototype kit
    - check who the release’s contributors are and if we have consent to include their name

5. Technical writer to finalise draft of release notes and get 2i on them.

6. Content designer or designer to update community backlog with rationale for any decisions we made.

7. Person leading the release to coordinate the sign-off when they are ready to do the release. Once the team agrees, this confirms a code and content freeze. Use the [#design-system-team-channel](https://gds.slack.com/app_redirect?channel=design-system-team-channel) to confirm sign-off from:
    - content designer, technical writer and designers for guidance, examples and community backlog decision rationale
    - technical writer and developers for Nunjucks macros
    - developers for changes to GOV.UK Frontend
    - technical writer for release notes

>     - content designer/Community manager/Technical writer for announcements and engagement activities

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - content designer/community manager/technical writer for announcements and engagement activities
```

Reviewer: Just saw that style guide says not to use slashes instead of 'or'. Might do it this way if that's ok:

```suggestion
    - content designer, community manager or technical writer for announcements and engagement activities
```

> Note: Before you go on leave, tell the delivery manager who will be looking after your work. This will help us to complete sign-off.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: Before you go on annual leave, tell the delivery manager who will be looking after your work. This will help us to complete sign-off.
```

> ### Publish a new version of GOV.UK Frontend from the support branch

Reviewer 2: As above, should there be some content between headings?

#### Change the code

1. To check out the support branch for the current major release, run `git checkout support/<CURRENT MAJOR VERSION NUMBER>.x`. If the branch does not exist, follow these steps to create it:

    - make sure you have all tags locally by running `git fetch --all --tags --prune`
    - run `git checkout tags/v<LAST RELEASED VERSION NUMBER> -b support/<CURRENT MAJOR VERSION NUMBER>.x` - for example, `git checkout tags/v3.9.1 -b support/3.x`

> 2. Run `nvm use` to make sure you’re using the right version of Node.js and npm.

Reviewer 2: NPM is used in capitals earlier in the doc - we should probably choose one or the other for consistency.

Reviewer: Thanks, will change the earlier mention to 'npm`, as they have it in lowercase on their site.

3. Push the support branch to GitHub. The branch will automatically have branch protection rules applied.

4. To fix the issue, create a new branch (for example, `git checkout -b fix-the-thing`) from the `support/<CURRENT MAJOR VERSION NUMBER>.x` branch.

5. Run `npm install` to make sure you have the latest dependencies installed.

6. Make your code changes, and test them following our [standard testing requirements](/docs/contributing/testing.md).

7. Update the changelog with details of the fix.

8. Commit your changes, then push your new branch (see step 4) to GitHub and raise a pull request, with `support/<CURRENT MAJOR VERSION NUMBER>.x` as the base branch to merge into.

> 9. Once a developer approves the pull request, merge it into `support/<CURRENT MAJOR VERSION NUMBER>.x`. It’s usually a developer who reviews the pull request, but sometimes pull requests need an extra review from another role.

Reviewer 2: Will the user of the doc know which pull requests need an extra review from another role?

Reviewer: Maybe a question for @vanitabarrett...

Author: @EoinShaughnessy @cmcnallygds Yes, I think this is a standard part of our way of working. If a pull request involves content or design changes, we would normally get a designer/content designer/technical writer to take a look as well as a developer.

Reviewer 2: @EoinShaughnessy it might be worth giving a brief example of when a PR might need an extra review.

Reviewer: Sounds good! Could something like the below work?

```suggestion
9. Once a developer approves the pull request, merge it into `support/<CURRENT MAJOR VERSION NUMBER>.x`. It’s usually a developer who reviews the pull request, but sometimes pull requests need an extra review from another role. For example, if the pull request involves a design change, you may need a review from a designer. 
```

Reviewer 2: I think that works

Reviewer: Thanks @cmcnallygds!

#### Build a new release

1. Check out `support/<CURRENT MAJOR VERSION NUMBER>.x`.

2. Create and check out a new branch, `support-release-[version-number]`. The version number of the new release depends on the type of release. New features correspond to a minor (X.1.X) change - for example, '3.14.0 (Feature release)'. Fixes correspond to a patch (X.X.1) change - for example, '3.13.1 (Patch release)'. In either case, refer to the previous release of that kind, and give the new release the logical next number. To learn more about our versioning, see our [guidance on updating the changelog](/docs/contributing/versioning.md#updating-changelog).

3. Run `nvm use` to make sure you’re using the right version of Node.js and npm.

> 4. Run `npm install` to make sure you have the latest dependencies installed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Run `npm install` to make sure you have the latest dependencies installed.
```

    - make sure you have all tags locally by running `git fetch --all --tags --prune`
    - run `git checkout tags/v<LAST RELEASED VERSION NUMBER> -b support/<CURRENT MAJOR VERSION NUMBER>.x` - for example, `git checkout tags/v3.9.1 -b support/3.x`

2. Run `nvm use` to make sure you’re using the right version of Node.js and npm.

3. Push the support branch to GitHub. The branch will automatically have branch protection rules applied.

4. To fix the issue, create a new branch (for example, `git checkout -b fix-the-thing`) from the `support/<CURRENT MAJOR VERSION NUMBER>.x` branch.

5. Run `npm install` to make sure you have the latest dependencies installed.

6. Make your code changes, and test them following our [standard testing requirements](/docs/contributing/testing.md).

7. Update the changelog with details of the fix.

8. Commit your changes, then push your new branch (see step 4) to GitHub and raise a pull request, with `support/<CURRENT MAJOR VERSION NUMBER>.x` as the base branch to merge into.

> 9. Once the PR is approved, merge it into `support/<CURRENT MAJOR VERSION NUMBER>.x`. It’s usually a developer who reviews the PR, but sometimes PRs need an extra review from another role.

Reviewer 3: Recommend saying who would approve this PR to remove passive e.g. "Once XYZ has approved the PR, merge the PR into..."

4. Run `npm install` to make sure you have the latest dependencies installed

5. In the CHANGELOG.md, replace the 'Unreleased' heading with the new version number and its release type. For example, '3.14.1 (Fix release)'. Also add a new 'Unreleased' heading above this new heading, so people raising new PRs know where to add them in the changelog.

6. Update the `package/package.json` version with the new version number.

7. Save the changes. Do not commit.

8. Run `npm run build-release`, which will prompt you to either continue or cancel. Enter `y` to continue.

9. If you want to make sure your changes work when used in the GOV.UK Design System, use [`npm-link`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/commands/npm-link) to test before publishing:

  ```bash
  cd ../govuk-design-system
  git checkout main
  git pull
  npm install # note running `npm install` after `npm link` will destroy the link.
  npm link ../govuk-frontend/package/
  ```

10. When you finish testing, run `npm unlink ../govuk-frontend/package/` to unlink the package.

11. Raise a pull request, with `support/<CURRENT MAJOR VERSION NUMBER>.x` as the base branch to merge into.

> 12. Once the pull request is approved, merge it into `support/<CURRENT MAJOR VERSION NUMBER>.x`.

Reviewer 3: As per other "is approved"

2. On the [Design System Kanban Board](https://github.com/orgs/alphagov/projects/4):

    - move any relevant cards from the 'Ready to Release' column to 'Done'
    - close any associated milestones

## Update the `main` branch

1. Check out the `main` branch and pull the latest changes.

2. Run `nvm use` and `npm install` to make sure you have the latest dependencies installed.

3. Make the same changes as in the patch fix PR, and test them using our [standard testing requirements](/docs/contributing/testing.md). Remember that `main` will contain changes the support branch did not have, which might affect the code changes you’ll need to make.

4. Also update the [CHANGELOG.md](/CHANGELOG.md) with this change. Add a new ‘Unreleased’ heading above the change, so people raising new PRs know where to add them in the changelog. Remember that the PR links in the changelog notes will need to link to the PRs against the `main` branch.

5. Commit your changes.

6. Push your branch to GitHub and raise a pull request, with `main` as the base branch to merge into.

> 7. Once the pull request is approved, merge it into the `main` branch.

Reviewer 3: As per other "is approved"

# Publish GOV.UK Frontend when `main` branch has unreleasable changes

> Follow this document to publish a support branch of GOV.UK Frontend when the `main` branch contains unreleasable changes. For example, you might need to release a fix as part of a:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document is for GOV.UK Design System developers who need to publish a support branch of GOV.UK Frontend when the `main` branch contains unreleasable changes. For example, you might need to release a fix as part of a:
```
@vanitabarrett We thought it would be good to call out who the doc is for. Can it be for any other roles besides Design System devs?

Author: @EoinShaughnessy I don't think so - only developers have access to the NPM credentials via the design system credentials repo at the moment.

Reviewer: @vanitabarrett Thanks!

@jonathanglassman How's the suggested wording?

Reviewer 3: @EoinShaughnessy works for me

> Do not use this document to release changes for previous major versions. We have not tested the document in this scenario, and extra work would be needed to tell NPM not to mark the release as the 'latest'

Reviewer 3: Recommend starting with line 5 and the bulleted list so that users know what this content is for rather than what it isn't for. Recommend moving line 3 to after the bullet line, so it would be inbetween current line 8 and line 9.

> Follow this document to publish a patch release of GOV.UK Frontend when the `main` branch contains unreleasable changes. For example, you might need to release a fix:

Reviewer 3: Could add to the lead in line as the bullets start with the same phrase i.e. 

"Follow this document to publish a patch release of GOV.UK Frontend when the `main` branch contains unreleasable changes. For example, you might need to release a fix as part of a:"

> Follow this document to publish a patch release of GOV.UK Frontend when the `main` branch contains unreleasable changes. For example, you might need to release a fix:

Reviewer 3: Would also recommend linking this to the title i.e. use the phrase "support branch" instead of "patch release".

- release, after the team has started to merge changes for a new breaking release into the `main` branch - for example, a 3x.x release once we've started merging changes for 4.0.0

> Do not use this document to release changes for previous major versions. We have not tested the document in this scenario, and extra work would be needed to tell NPM not to mark the release as the 'latest'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not use this document to release changes for previous major releases. We have not tested the document in this scenario, and extra work would be needed to tell NPM not to mark the release as the 'latest'.
```

> If the `main` branch contains unreleased changes that are releasable immediately, [follow the steps in Publishing GOV.UK Frontend](/docs/releasing/publishing.md) instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to publish the `main` branch for GOV.UK Frontend, [follow the steps in Publishing GOV.UK Frontend](/docs/releasing/publishing.md).
```

Reviewer: @jonathanglassman

> If you want to publish the `main` branch for GOV.UK Frontend, [follow the steps in Publishing GOV.UK Frontend](/docs/releasing/publishing.md).

Reviewer 3: LGTM

> If the `main` branch contains unreleased changes that are releasable immediately, [follow the steps in Publishing GOV.UK Frontend](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/blob/main/docs/releasing/publishing.md) instead.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If the `main` branch contains unreleased changes that are releasable immediately, [follow the steps in Publishing GOV.UK Frontend](/docs/releasing/publishing.md) instead.
```

If the `main` branch only has a few unreleasable changes and these are easy to revert, you can do the following:

1. Revert the unreleasable changes on the `main` branch
2. Follow the steps to publish GOV.UK Frontend
3. Add the reverted changes to the `main` branch

> 

Reviewer 3: Suggest the following changes to minimise the passive, be more clear about what you are achieving here, remove the need for the colon as recommended in the style guide, and make sure the numbered bullets are in the right format (complete sentences) as per the style guide:

"If the `main` branch only has a few unreleasable changes, you can temporarily revert those changes.

1. Revert the unreleasable changes on the `main` branch.
1. Publish GOV.UK Frontend.
1. Add the reverted changes back into the `main` branch."

Reviewer: Thanks @jonathanglassman - actioned.

However, this approach has risks. For example, it creates a messy commit history on the `main` branch.

> ## Release GOV.UK Frontend from support branch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Publish GOV.UK Frontend from a support branch
```

> ### Before you release GOV.UK Frontend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Before you publish GOV.UK Frontend
```

> ## Release GOV.UK Frontend from support branch

Reviewer 3: Given that this section explicitly speaks to different parties, it might be worth defining who this content is for overall at the start. Who is following this content? Is it anyone in the Design System team? Or is it a specific person who then has to notify the other parties mentioned in this section what they need to do?

Reviewer: Addressed in suggested wording for line 3. :)

> 1. At stand up, tell the GOV.UK Design System team we are close to releasing.

Reviewer: @vanitabarrett Also thought it would be good to specify what role is responsible for steps 1, 3 and 7 (the same way we've done this for steps 2, 4, 5 and 6). Is it always the Senior Frontend Developer who does these steps, or can it ever be any other role?

Reviewer: Ah great, thanks @vanitabarrett!

```suggestion
1. At stand up, person leading the release (usually a developer) to tell the GOV.UK Design System team we are close to releasing.
```
FYI @jonathanglassman

Reviewer 3: thank you

2. Developers to raise new issues in the team GitHub repositories ([govuk-frontend](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend), [govuk-frontend-docs](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend-docs), [govuk-prototype-kit](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-prototype-kit)) to:
    - create announcement draft for the new release (example card: [#2108](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/issues/2108))
    - create release notes for the new release (example card: [#1986](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/issues/1986))

>     - create release notes for the new version of GOV.UK Prototype Kit (example card: [#958](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-prototype-kit/issues/958))

Reviewer: @vanitabarrett In the bullets before this one, we mention 'releases'. Is there a difference between a 'release' and a 'version'?

Author: That's a good question! I think we use them a bit interchangeably at the moment. In this example, I think we could talk about the 'new release of the GOV.UK Prototype Kit' and that would make sense and be more consistent.

Reviewer: Thanks @vanitabarrett!

@jonathanglassman I'll go through this doc and, where appropriate, replace 'version' with 'release'.

```suggestion
    - create release notes for the new release of GOV.UK Prototype Kit (example card: [#958](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-prototype-kit/issues/958))
```

Reviewer 3: thanks!

    - create a card for the new release of GOV.UK Frontend (example card: [#1987](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/issues/1987))
    - update the GOV.UK Design System to use the new release of GOV.UK Frontend (example card: [#1347](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-design-system/issues/1347))
    - create a card for the new release of GOV.UK Prototype Kit (example card: [#917](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-prototype-kit/issues/917))
    - update the GOV.UK Prototype Kit to use the new release (example card: [#923](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-prototype-kit/issues/923))

> 3. Add the issues to the [Design System sprint board](https://github.com/orgs/alphagov/projects/4).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Person leading the release to add the issues to the [Design System sprint board](https://github.com/orgs/alphagov/projects/4).
```
FYI @jonathanglassman

> 3. Add the issues to the Design System sprint board.

Reviewer 4: In the draft doc this is a link:

```suggestion
3. Add the issues to the [Design System sprint board](https://github.com/orgs/alphagov/projects/4).
```

4. Content designer to:
    - write announcements to post on Slack after we release:

>       - GOV.UK Frontend (for example, draft comms for the cookie banner component)

Reviewer 4: In the draft doc this is a link:

```suggestion
      - GOV.UK Frontend (for example, [draft comms for the cookie banner component](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jVyMB7i94NOeflWaf3kE4Q4APMXGfluK3rOh74IHO08/edit))
```

      - GOV.UK Prototype kit
    - check who the release’s contributors are and if we have consent to include their name

5. Technical writer to finalise draft of release notes and get 2i on them.

6. Content designer or designer to update community backlog with rationale for any decisions we made.

> 7. Coordinate the sign-off when you are ready to do the release. Once the team agrees, this confirms a code and content freeze. Use the #design-system-team-channel to confirm sign-off from:

Reviewer 4: In the draft doc this is a link:

```suggestion
7. Coordinate the sign-off when you are ready to do the release. Once the team agrees, this confirms a code and content freeze. Use the [#design-system-team-channel](https://gds.slack.com/app_redirect?channel=design-system-team-channel) to confirm sign-off from:
```

> 7. Coordinate the sign-off when you are ready to do the release. Once the team agrees, this confirms a code and content freeze. Use the [#design-system-team-channel](https://gds.slack.com/app_redirect?channel=design-system-team-channel) to confirm sign-off from:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Person leading the release to coordinate the sign-off when they are ready to do the release. Once the team agrees, this confirms a code and content freeze. Use the [#design-system-team-channel](https://gds.slack.com/app_redirect?channel=design-system-team-channel) to confirm sign-off from:
```
FYI @jonathanglassman

> 7. Coordinate the sign-off when you are ready to do the release. Once the team agrees, this confirms a code and content freeze. Use the [#design-system-team-channel](https://gds.slack.com/app_redirect?channel=design-system-team-channel) to confirm sign-off from:

Reviewer 3: Make sure the unordered bullets start with a lower case letter, as per the style guide

    - Content designer, technical writer and designers for guidance, examples and community backlog decision rationale
    - Technical writer and developers for Nunjucks macros
    - Developers for changes to GOV.UK Frontend
    - Technical writer for release notes
    - Content designer/Community manager/Technical writer for announcements and engagement activities

> Note: Before you go on leave, tell the delivery manager who will be looking after your work. This will help us to complete sign-off without fuss.

Reviewer 3: Recommend you remove "without fuss" as unnecessary, also could be challenging for non-native English speaker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: Before you go on leave, tell the delivery manager who will be looking after your work. This will help us to complete sign-off.
```

> ### Release a new version of GOV.UK Frontend

Reviewer: @vanitabarrett Wonder could we be more explicit about where users do this from. Also, are 'publishing' and 'releasing' the same thing? If they are, maybe we could make things clearer throughout the doc by sticking with 'publish' as a verb, and 'release' as a noun.

```suggestion
### Publish a new version of GOV.UK Frontend from the support branch
```

Author: @EoinShaughnessy In terms of publish vs release, yep I think I agree and they're pretty much the same thing. The suggested change looks good 👍

Author: Maybe 'from a support branch' would be more accurate - we might have more than one.

Reviewer: Ah great, thanks @vanitabarrett! Will also change 'version' to 'release', like we've done above in line 29.
 
```suggestion
### Publish a new release of GOV.UK Frontend from a support branch
```

Reviewer: FYI @jonathanglassman

#### Change the code

1. To check out the support branch for the current major release, run `git checkout support/<CURRENT MAJOR VERSION NUMBER>.x`. If the branch does not exist, follow these steps to create it:

    - make sure you have all tags locally by running `git fetch --all --tags --prune`
    - run `git checkout tags/v<LAST RELEASED VERSION NUMBER> -b support/<CURRENT MAJOR VERSION NUMBER>.x` - for example, `git checkout tags/v3.9.1 -b support/3.x`

2. Run `nvm use` to make sure you’re using the right version of Node.js and npm.

3. Push the support branch to GitHub. The branch will automatically have branch protection rules applied.

4. To fix the issue, create a new branch (for example, `git checkout -b fix-the-thing`) from the `support/<CURRENT MAJOR VERSION NUMBER>.x` branch.

5. Run `npm install` to make sure you have the latest dependencies installed.

> 6. Make your code changes, and test them following our [standard testing requirements](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/blob/main/docs/contributing/testing.md).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
6. Make your code changes, and test them following our [standard testing requirements](/docs/contributing/testing.md).
```

> 7. Update the Changelog with details of the fix.

Reviewer 3: "changelog" is uncapitalised, as per the style guide

> 8. Commit your changes.

Reviewer 3: Could combine steps 8 and 9.

Reviewer: Good idea! Done!

9. Push your new branch (see step 4) to GitHub and raise a pull request, with `support/<CURRENT MAJOR VERSION NUMBER>.x` as the base branch to merge into.

10. Once the PR is approved, merge it into `support/<CURRENT MAJOR VERSION NUMBER>.x`. It’s usually a developer who reviews the PR, but sometimes PRs need an extra review from another role.

#### Build a new release

1. Check out `support/<CURRENT MAJOR VERSION NUMBER>.x`.

> 2. Create and check out a new branch, `support-release-[version-number]`. The version number of the new release depends on the type of release. New features correspond to a minor (X.1.X) change - for example, '3.14.0 (Feature release)'. Fixes correspond to a patch (X.X.1) change - for example, '3.13.1 (Patch release)'. In either case, refer to the previous release of that kind, and give the new release the logical next number. [To learn more about our versioning, see our guidance on updating the Changelog](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/blob/main/docs/contributing/versioning.md#updating-changelog).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. Create and check out a new branch, `support-release-[version-number]`. The version number of the new release depends on the type of release. New features correspond to a minor (X.1.X) change - for example, '3.14.0 (Feature release)'. Fixes correspond to a patch (X.X.1) change - for example, '3.13.1 (Patch release)'. In either case, refer to the previous release of that kind, and give the new release the logical next number. [To learn more about our versioning, see our guidance on updating the Changelog](/docs/contributing/versioning.md#updating-changelog).
```

> 2. Create and check out a new branch, `support-release-[version-number]`. The version number of the new release depends on the type of release. New features correspond to a minor (X.1.X) change - for example, '3.14.0 (Feature release)'. Fixes correspond to a patch (X.X.1) change - for example, '3.13.1 (Patch release)'. In either case, refer to the previous release of that kind, and give the new release the logical next number. [To learn more about our versioning, see our guidance on updating the Changelog](/docs/contributing/versioning.md#updating-changelog).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create and check out a new branch, `support-release-[version-number]`. The version number of the new release depends on the type of release. New features correspond to a minor (X.1.X) change - for example, '3.14.0 (Feature release)'. Fixes correspond to a patch (X.X.1) change - for example, '3.13.1 (Patch release)'. In either case, refer to the previous release of that kind, and give the new release the logical next number. To learn more about our versioning, see our [guidance on updating the changelog](/docs/contributing/versioning.md#updating-changelog).
```

6. Update the `package/package.json` version with the new version number.

7. Save the changes. Do not commit.

8. Run `npm run build-release`, which will prompt you to either continue or cancel. Enter `y` to continue.

9. If you want to make sure your changes work when used in the GOV.UK Design System, use [`npm-link`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/commands/npm-link) to test before publishing:

  ```bash
  cd ../govuk-design-system
  git checkout main
  git pull
  npm install # note running `npm install` after `npm link` will destroy the link.
  npm link ../govuk-frontend/package/
  ```

10. When you finish testing, run `npm unlink ../govuk-frontend/package/` to unlink the package.

11. Raise a pull request, with `support/<CURRENT MAJOR VERSION NUMBER>.x` as the base branch to merge into.

12. Once the pull request is approved, merge it into `support/<CURRENT MAJOR VERSION NUMBER>.x`.

#### Publish the release to npm

1. Check out `support/<CURRENT MAJOR VERSION NUMBER>.x` and pull the latest changes.

2. Run `npm login` to log into npm using our team credentials.

3. Run `npm run publish-release`, which will prompt you to either continue or cancel. Enter `y` to continue.

> 4. View the created tag in the [Github interface](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/releases) as follows:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. View the created tag in the [GitHub interface](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/releases) as follows:
```

> 2. Run `npm login` to log into npm using our team credentials.

Reviewer 3: Sign in rather than log in, as per style guide

Reviewer: Ah, didn't know about this - thanks, will keep in mind!

    - select the latest tag
    - press 'Edit tag'

>     - set ‘GOV.UK Frontend v[version-number] as the title

Reviewer 4: This is missing a closing quote mark, I think this is the appropriate place for it:

```suggestion
    - set ‘GOV.UK Frontend v[version-number]’ as the title
```

>     - press 'Edit tag'

Reviewer 3: should 'Edit tag' be in bold as it's UI text?

>     - set ‘GOV.UK Frontend v[version-number]’  as the title

Reviewer 3: think there is an extra space here

>     - add release notes from Changelog

Reviewer 3: de-capitalise Changelog

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - add release notes from changelog
```

    - attach the generated ZIP that has been generated at the root of this project
    - publish release

5. Run `npm logout` to log out from npm.

> ### After you publish the new version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### After you publish the new release
```

> 1. Once you've updated the GOV.UK Design System, Prototype Kit, and Frontend Docs, [post a short summary of the release in the cross-government and GDS #govuk-design-system Slack channelshttps://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/issues/2363).

Reviewer 4: This is missing some of the link syntax:

```suggestion
1. Once you've updated the GOV.UK Design System, Prototype Kit, and Frontend Docs, [post a short summary of the release in the cross-government and GDS #govuk-design-system Slack channels](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/issues/2363).
```

> 5. Run `npm logout` to log out from npm.

Reviewer 3: Sign out rather than log out, as per the style guide

> 1. Once you've updated the GOV.UK Design System, Prototype Kit, and Frontend Docs, [post a short summary of the release in the cross-government and GDS #govuk-design-system Slack channels]https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/issues/2363).

Reviewer 3: Think there's a missing "(" so the link wouldn't work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Once you've updated the GOV.UK Design System, Prototype Kit and Frontend Docs, [post a short summary of the release in the cross-government and GDS #govuk-design-system Slack channels](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/issues/2363).
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Extra line here

2. On the [Design System Kanban Board](https://github.com/orgs/alphagov/projects/4):

>     - move any relevant cards from 'Ready to Release' column to 'Done'

Reviewer 3: => move any relevant cards from the 'Ready to Release' column to 'Done'

    - close any associated milestones

## Update the `main` branch

1. Check out the `main` branch and pull the latest changes.

2. Run `nvm use` and `npm install` to make sure you have the latest dependencies installed.

> 3. Make the same changes as in the patch fix PR, and test them using our [standard testing requirements](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/blob/main/docs/contributing/testing.md). Remember that `main` will contain changes the support branch did not have, which might affect the code changes you’ll need to make.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. Make the same changes as in the patch fix PR, and test them using our [standard testing requirements](/docs/contributing/testing.md). Remember that `main` will contain changes the support branch did not have, which might affect the code changes you’ll need to make.
```

> 4. Also update the [CHANGELOG.md](/CHANGELOG.md) with this change. Add a new ‘Unreleased’ heading above the change, so people raising new PRs know where to add them in the Changelog. Remember that the PR links in the Changelog notes will need to link to the PRs against the `main` branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Also update the [CHANGELOG.md](/CHANGELOG.md) with this change. Add a new ‘Unreleased’ heading above the change, so people raising new PRs know where to add them in the changelog. Remember that the PR links in the changelog notes will need to link to the PRs against the `main` branch.
```

> 4. Also update the [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) with this change. Add a new ‘Unreleased’ heading above the change, so people raising new PRs know where to add them in the Changelog. Remember that the PR links in the Changelog notes will need to link to the PRs against the `main` branch.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. Also update the [CHANGELOG.md](/CHANGELOG.md) with this change. Add a new ‘Unreleased’ heading above the change, so people raising new PRs know where to add them in the Changelog. Remember that the PR links in the Changelog notes will need to link to the PRs against the `main` branch.
```

Author: @lfdebrux I was wondering if it would be helpful here - it's important that the person following these docs is on the `main` branch and updates the Changelog on `main`. There is a step above to switch to the `main` branch, but this might help reinforce that?

Reviewer 4: @vanitabarrett I don't think they should be editing the CHANGELOG on the main branch? I think we have branch protection rules that prevent that...

Author: Ah no, sorry, I meant a reminder that they need to be editing the Changelog as it is on the `main` branch rather than the one they changed via the support branch (as the two will now look different). But good point, they'll be on their own branch at this point, so it should be fine to be a relative link
